- [Instructor] There's one more high-level concept
that I want to talk about,
and this really can be helpful for organizations
that want to control dependencies at a higher level
and that is parent POMs
and the associated concept of reactor builds.
A parent POM is a POM file that is stand-alone,
meaning that there is no code associated with it.
That creates a list of dependency versions
and plugin versions that the subordinate projects
can leverage.
This provides a way to control versions in one place
so the subordinate projects don't actually have to
specify the version, only the dependency.
In addition to dependencies and plugins,
parent POMs can provide properties and repositories.
This really becomes a powerful tool
when companies need a way to manage versions and licenses,
as you can provide a pre-approved list
of dependencies and artifacts.
A similar concept called a reactor exists.
A reactor builds on the concept of a parent POM.
A reactor is used to build a group of related projects
through the use of the parent POM.
Maven commands are executed on the parent,
and the reactor executes the commands on each module
or artifact in the reactor in such a way
that the dependencies, if they exist,
are handled in the correct order.
Building a reactor is not that hard
but it is time consuming.
So instead of building one
I want to walk through the structure at least.
And actually, our existing project
that we're going to look at here in a minute,
is already setup to be a reactor.
At the root is a POM file that contains
the dependency management section,
which usually references all of the modules.
The parent version is used for all items
to keep them in sync.
Because reactor modules tend to depend on each other,
you usually want to put the module
in the dependency management section of the parent POM.
One important aspect of the POM
is that its packaging type must be POM.
So far, we haven't seen this section
because the default is JAR,
but parent POM files must be packaged as a POM.
Now, in the root directory you then create
project directories for each module.
You define the module and the parent in a module section.
Now each module has its own java project structure,
including a POM.
That POM lists the reactor parent POM as its parent.
This structure is super useful when you build
shared client libraries, for web services for instance.
You can define your interface
and domain objects in one module,
your client in another that depends on that interface,
and finally, your implementation that also depends
on the interface in a third module.
Now let's take a look at this structure
a little bit in code.
Now we're going to do some refactoring later on with this,
but I at least want to get you invested into what we've done.
So at the root of our project in the learning-maven folder,
I've created a POM file
and that POM file is listed as the parent of project.
You'll see that there's a module section
starting here on line 12
that references the learning-maven-presidents module.
Likewise, if we open up the POM in that project
you will see starting at line 11
that I've defined the parent that is the module itself.
So let's jump over here to the terminal,
and this time we're going to start at the learning-maven level,
so the root of our exercise file.
So we're going to do a Maven clean package
on the root of our project here,
and what I want you to notice is that you're going to get
a reactor build order listed
and that's because it knows the order
that it has to be done in.
And it's going to go through and execute the build
on each of those projects.
So if we scroll back up a little bit in our console here,
so that we can actually see what happened,
you'll see that we got this reactor build order
and it built the parent POM first and then the JAR,
and then it went through
and did all of its build operations.
And that's the way that a reactor works,
if we had multiple modules
each of them would get built in the correct order,
and because we did packaging,
testing also happened and subsequent operations occurred,
and we're going to talk about that build life cycle
in just a little bit.
But that's a way that a reactor works,
and though we've been dealing with it
at the beginning of this course,
we haven't been working on the reactor level.
Instead, we've been working on the module level,
so this time we can actually work with the reactor
and see how this behaves.